Technical Support
=================

Paid Support
------------

Hercules does not have any official (formal) paid support in place...

**...HOWEVER...**

I'm sure if you ask the group whether or not there's anyone out there
willing to provide it, you'll probably get more than one response.    
``;-)``

I know for a fact that at least one person is already providing Hercules
Technical Support on a paid basis, and as I said, I'm sure there are
probably others out there who are either already doing it, or at least
*willing* to do it, too. All you have to do is ask (any of the people
involved with Hercules (users and/or developers)) and I'm sure more than
one would be willing to provide it to you for a reasonable agreed-upon
fee.

Your best approach for obtaining fee-paid tecnical support for Hercules
would be to post an inquiry to the main `Hercules-390
group <https://hercules-390.groups.io/g/group>`__ (see next section
below) and simply *ask* whether anyone out there would be willing to
provide it. As I said, I'm sure there are probably many people out there
who would be willing to do so for the right price.

--------------

Free Support
------------

Since Hercules is an Open Source product owned by no one in particular
and copyrighted by many (lots of *very sharp* people have contributed
over the years to Hercules's success), there doesn't exist any type of
official "Technical Support Department" within any type of company or
anything (like there usually is for closed-source products).

Instead, as with most Open Source products, there simply exists a
dedicated group of individuals and enthusiasts who are willing to put in
their spare time helping others with whatever problems and/or questions
others may have regarding it. This dedicated group of Hercules
enthusiasts is known as "our user community", and it honestly does, in
this author's opinion, a pretty darn good job at providing whatever
technical support most people find themselves needing.

If your question and/or concern regarding Hercules is not already
addressed in our `FAQ <hercfaq.html>`__ and/or
`documentation <index.html#docs>`__ then you might consider posting your
question to either the main `Hercules-390
group <https://hercules-390.groups.io/g/group>`__ or one of the `more
"focused" support groups <#other_forums>`__ listed further below:

| 

   .. code:: jcl


          HERCULES-390:   Primary SDL Hercules Hyperion support forum

              Group Web Page:

                  https://hercules-390.groups.io/g/group

              Group Files and archives:

                  https://hercules-390.groups.io/g/group/files

              Group Email Addresses:

                  Post:          group@hercules-390.groups.io
                  Subscribe:     group+subscribe@hercules-390.groups.io
                  Unsubscribe:   group+unsubscribe@hercules-390.groups.io
                  Group owner:   group+owner@hercules-390.groups.io
                  Help:          group+help@hercules-390.groups.io

| 

The `Hercules-390 group <https://hercules-390.groups.io/g/group>`__ is
your primary source for free Hercules support, and you are strongly
encouraged to subscribe. It is a vibrant, active community with hundreds
of members, most of whom are very knowledgeable in many different areas
of mainframe technology, both from a hardware point of view as well as
from an operating system and software point of view.

In addition to the main Hercules-390 group, other more specialized
Hercules groups also exist to provide more focused support for a variety
of popular IBM mainframe operating systems, such as DOS/VS, z/VSE,
VM/370, z/VM, MVS, z/OS, etc:

| 

   .. code:: jcl


          H390-DOSVS:   Running DOS/VS, DOS/VSE or z/VSE under Hercules

              Group Web Page:

                  https://groups.io/g/H390-DOSVS

              Group Files and archives:

                  https://groups.io/g/H390-DOSVS/files

              Group Email Addresses:

                  Post:          H390-DOSVS@groups.io
                  Subscribe:     H390-DOSVS+subscribe@groups.io
                  Unsubscribe:   H390-DOSVS+unsubscribe@groups.io
                  Group owner:   H390-DOSVS+owner@groups.io
                  Help:          H390-DOSVS+help@groups.io

..

   .. code:: jcl


          H390-MVS:   Running MVS or z/OS under Hercules

              Group Web Page:

                  https://groups.io/g/H390-MVS

              Group Files and archives:

                  https://groups.io/g/H390-MVS/files

              Group Email Addresses:

                  Post:          H390-MVS@groups.io
                  Subscribe:     H390-MVS+subscribe@groups.io
                  Unsubscribe:   H390-MVS+unsubscribe@groups.io
                  Group owner:   H390-MVS+owner@groups.io
                  Help:          H390-MVS+help@groups.io

   .. code:: jcl


          Turnkey-MVS:   Discussion group for running the Tur(n)key MVS38j operating system on Hercules

              Group Web Page:

                  https://groups.io/g/Turnkey-MVS

              Group Files and archives:

                  https://groups.io/g/Turnkey-MVS/files

              Group Email Addresses:

                  Post:          Turnkey-MVS@groups.io
                  Subscribe:     Turnkey-MVS+subscribe@groups.io
                  Unsubscribe:   Turnkey-MVS+unsubscribe@groups.io
                  Group owner:   Turnkey-MVS+owner@groups.io
                  Help:          Turnkey-MVS+help@groups.io

..

   .. code:: jcl


          h390-vm:   Running VM/370, VM/SP, VM/ESA or z/VM under Hercules

              Group Web Page:

                  https://groups.io/g/h390-vm

              Group Files and archives:

                  https://groups.io/g/h390-vm/files

              Group Email Addresses:

                  Post:          h390-vm@groups.io
                  Subscribe:     h390-vm+subscribe@groups.io
                  Unsubscribe:   h390-vm+unsubscribe@groups.io
                  Group owner:   h390-vm+owner@groups.io
                  Help:          h390-vm+help@groups.io

   .. code:: jcl


          H390-MTS:   Discussion group for running the MTS operating system on Hercules

              Group Web Page:

                  https://groups.io/g/H390-MTS

              Group Files and archives:

                  https://groups.io/g/H390-MTS/files

              Group Email Addresses:

                  Post:          H390-MTS@groups.io
                  Subscribe:     H390-MTS+subscribe@groups.io
                  Unsubscribe:   H390-MTS+unsubscribe@groups.io
                  Group owner:   H390-MTS+owner@groups.io
                  Help:          H390-MTS+help@groups.io

..

   .. code:: jcl


          H390-MUSIC:   Discussion group for running the Music/SP operating system on Hercules

              Group Web Page:

                  https://groups.io/g/H390-MUSIC

              Group Files and archives:

                  https://groups.io/g/H390-MUSIC/files

              Group Email Addresses:

                  Post:          H390-MUSIC@groups.io
                  Subscribe:     H390-MUSIC+subscribe@groups.io
                  Unsubscribe:   H390-MUSIC+unsubscribe@groups.io
                  Group owner:   H390-MUSIC+owner@groups.io
                  Help:          H390-MUSIC+help@groups.io

   .. code:: jcl


          H390-OSVS:   Discussion group for running the OS/VS1 and OS/VS2 operating systems on Hercules

              Group Web Page:

                  https://groups.io/g/H390-OSVS

              Group Files and archives:

                  https://groups.io/g/H390-OSVS/files

              Group Email Addresses:

                  Post:          H390-OSVS@groups.io
                  Subscribe:     H390-OSVS+subscribe@groups.io
                  Unsubscribe:   H390-OSVS+unsubscribe@groups.io
                  Group owner:   H390-OSVS+owner@groups.io
                  Help:          H390-OSVS+help@groups.io

..

   .. code:: jcl


          Hercules-OS380:   Discussion group for running the OS380 operating system on Hercules

              Group Web Page:

                  https://groups.io/g/Hercules-OS380

              Group Files and archives:

                  https://groups.io/g/Hercules-OS380/files

              Group Email Addresses:

                  Post:          Hercules-OS380@groups.io
                  Subscribe:     Hercules-OS380+subscribe@groups.io
                  Unsubscribe:   Hercules-OS380+unsubscribe@groups.io
                  Group owner:   Hercules-OS380+owner@groups.io
                  Help:          Hercules-OS380+help@groups.io

   .. code:: jcl


          MVS38j-Wylbur:   Discussion group for running the Wylbur operating system on Hercules

              Group Web Page:

                  https://groups.io/g/MVS38j-Wylbur

              Group Files and archives:

                  https://groups.io/g/MVS38j-Wylbur/files

              Group Email Addresses:

                  Post:          MVS38j-Wylbur@groups.io
                  Subscribe:     MVS38j-Wylbur+subscribe@groups.io
                  Unsubscribe:   MVS38j-Wylbur+unsubscribe@groups.io
                  Group owner:   MVS38j-Wylbur+owner@groups.io
                  Help:          MVS38j-Wylbur+help@groups.io

..

   .. code:: jcl


          KICKSforTSO:   Discussion group for running KICKS for TSO under MVS38j on Hercules

              Group Web Page:

                  https://groups.io/g/KICKSforTSO

              Group Files and archives:

                  https://groups.io/g/KICKSforTSO/files

              Group Email Addresses:

                  Post:          KICKSforTSO@groups.io
                  Subscribe:     KICKSforTSO+subscribe@groups.io
                  Unsubscribe:   KICKSforTSO+unsubscribe@groups.io
                  Group owner:   KICKSforTSO+owner@groups.io
                  Help:          KICKSforTSO+help@groups.io

   .. code:: jcl


          cbt-tape:   Discussion group for the CBT MVS Utilities and Overflow Tapes

              Group Web Page:

                  https://groups.io/g/cbt-tape

              Group Files and archives:

                  https://groups.io/g/cbt-tape/files

              Group Email Addresses:

                  Post:          cbt-tape@groups.io
                  Subscribe:     cbt-tape+subscribe@groups.io
                  Unsubscribe:   cbt-tape+unsubscribe@groups.io
                  Group owner:   cbt-tape+owner@groups.io
                  Help:          cbt-tape+help@groups.io

..

   .. code:: jcl


          hercules-s370asm:   Forum discussing use of S/370 assembler with the Hercules emulator

              Group Web Page:

                  https://groups.io/g/hercules-s370asm

              Group Files and archives:

                  https://groups.io/g/hercules-s370asm/files

              Group Email Addresses:

                  Post:          hercules-s370asm@groups.io
                  Subscribe:     hercules-s370asm+subscribe@groups.io
                  Unsubscribe:   hercules-s370asm+unsubscribe@groups.io
                  Group owner:   hercules-s370asm+owner@groups.io
                  Help:          hercules-s370asm+help@groups.io

   .. code:: jcl


          SATK:   SATK and Bare-Metal programming on mainframes

              Group Web Page:

                  https://groups.io/g/satk
                  https://github.com/s390guy/SATK

              Group Files and archives:

                  https://groups.io/g/satk/files

              Group Email Addresses:

                  Post:          satk@groups.io
                  Subscribe:     satk+subscribe@groups.io
                  Unsubscribe:   satk+unsubscribe@groups.io
                  Group owner:   satk+owner@groups.io
                  Help:          satk+help@groups.io
